# Georgia data
Georgia has the second most number of counties at 159, trailing only Texas which has 254 counties.

Georgia property taxes are county-, municipality-, and special-district-based (no state property tax). The taxes are specified in mill rates or dollar of tax liability for $1,000 of taxable assessed value. The  See the Georgia Department of Revenue "[Property Tax Millage Rates](https://dor.georgia.gov/local-government-services/digest-compliance/property-tax-millage-rates)" page. All land, buildings, and business personal property (e.g., servers, networking equipment, cooling systems) are assessed at 40% of fair market value, and the business personal property is depreciated annually at specified schedules.

The University of Georgia Institute of Government found that "local jurisdictions may offer incentives to encourage data centers to locate in a specific county or city." See Georgia Department of Audits and Accounts, "[Georgia Data Center Sales & Use Tax Exemption: DOAA summary of report prepared by the University of Georgia’s Carl Vinson Institute of Government (Institute)](https://www.audits2.ga.gov/reports/summaries/georgia-data-center-sales-use-tax-exemption)," (Dec. 24, 2025).

Most residences in Georgia can qualify for and receive the homestead exemption, which is a $2,000 deduction from the assessed taxable value of the property. Residents over the age of 65 can get a $4,000 deduction from their assessed taxable value. There are some other smaller exemptions for residents under the homestead exemption. See Georgia Department of Revenue's "[Property Tax Homestead Exemptions](https://dor.georgia.gov/property-tax-homestead-exemptions)" page, accessed June 17, 2026. We estimate that this reduces residential property assessed taxable values to 39% of fair market value, a one-percentage-point decrease from the 40% ratio without the exemption.

We calculate the total taxes levied by county from the "2025 Summary of Ad Valorem Taxes Levied Report.pdf"
